Here is the bridge between the lab and the field.
Real numbers you measure at the bench flow straight into
the same physics that predicts erosion in the desert.
How dense is the culture? How much glutamate are we feeding? How salty
is the water? These are dials you actually turn on the bench.
Every one of those bench inputs feeds the exact same wind-erosion
model the other modules use — no separate, hand-waved lab version.
And the answer shows up as a virtual dune — hold
the settings that give a strong crust, and it stands firm.
Turn a dial the wrong way — too much salt, too
little feed — and you watch the same dune wear down.
An experiment on Monday becomes a field prediction on Tuesday.